The main goal of this project was to annotate the genes within contig_13 and functionally characterise its predicted proteins. That means to derive its structural and functional information using different analysis and comparison techniques. For this project we performed two different lines of work, summarized in .txt files and .sh scripts.

1. Perform homology-based methods for gene prediction
2. Perform ab-initio methods for gene prediction

We decided to start with homology based methods as it gives us a broad idea of the gene and species we're working with. That means that we can later perform ab-initio methods more accurately with the information we already have. As a matter of fact, we wanted to first manually transcribe the nucleotides to aminoacids using a python script and perform a blast, but the sequence that was given to us couldn't be divided evenly by three, so it required that start and stop codons were found. Instead of modifying the code, it was easier to perform the blast directly with a blastx, that takes a nucleotide sequence and turns it into an aminoacid sequence to then compare it with the database. That was the first step of homology-based methods, so we decided that it was the best starting point for the project, and that we could skip the first part altogether. 

In general the homology-based method returned as predominantly result, that contig_13 contains one gene, coding for superoxide dismutase [Cu/Zn]. Most of genomic sequences of different species matched with contig_13, all coding for superoxide dismutase [Cu/Zn]. Other matches are with genomic sequences 'coding' for unnamed or hipothetical proteins. In this case the DNA sequence could theoretically code for a protein, but the function of this protein is unknown. We conducted the homology based prediction with the following fish species: Hemibarbus mylodon, Paramisgurnus dabryanus, Danio rerio and Danio aesculapii. All genomic sequences showed high compability with contig_13. Further shows their evaluation (see document homology-based.txt) that the number of exons/introns as well as their position in the genomic sequence (nearly) correspond to each other.

In the following we are going to concentrate on Danio rerio for the homology-based method, as it shows a high compability. The prediction displayed a 100% identity between the nuclebases of the exon sequences with sequences of contig_13. Furhtermore, we were able to choose Danio rerio as species for the FGENESH (ab initio) prediction. The use of the same sepcies for both FGENESH and homology-based prediction provides a rather unbiased base to compare the two methods themselves (because we don't have the genetic differences between the species). 
Eventually, both homology-based and ab-initio methods have helped us deduce that contig_13 is the gene coding for superoxide dismutase [Cu/Zn] from a fish species, probably Danio aesculapii or Danio rerio (zebrafish).

The Ab initio prediction, however, turned out to be a bit difficult: Running the geneID prediction for different species (Homo sapiens (humans), Drosophila melanogaster (fruit fly), Tetraodon nigroviridis (puffer fish) displayed quite different results: 4 exons found for humans, 1 exon found for the fruit fly, 2 exons for the puffer fish. We decided to further continue with the puffer fish GeneID prediction as we assumed it is the species genetically the closest related to the fish species chosen in the homology-based method. Like mentioned before we run the FGENESH prediction for the zebrafish to have an ab initio and a homology-based prediction for the same species. FGENESH prediction ...

Comparison of the results
we did three different T coffees: 1) GeneID (puffer fish) and FGENESH (zebrafish) 2) GeneID (puffer fish), FGENESH (zebrafish) and Homology-based (zebrafish) 3) FGENESH (zebrafish) and Homology-based (zebrafish).
1)
2)
3) 

Superoxide dismutase is an antioxidant enzyme in the fish antioxidant defense system, which can remove excess reactive oxygen species and protect fish from stress-induced oxidative damage. 
Cu/Zn-SOD mRNA is highly expressed in the liver, brain, and eye, but lowly showed in the stomach, gill, spleen, skin, and muscle.
The SOD is directrly associated with longer lifespans in some model systems, this indicates that aging and SOD are also related. Interestingly, caloric restriction increases the resistance of organisms to oxidative stress, suggesting that there may be a relationship between stress resistance (induced by SOD) and aging.


